So the next thing I wanna
talk about are these,
I think Next.js has an unofficial name for
them.
They either call them like
special pages or something.
I don't think that's like their coin term.
I've seen it in their documentation,
referred to it as special pages here and
there, but I don't think that's
what they're calling them.
They're just trying to figure out like,
how do we refer to these?
These are basically what
I call auxiliary pages.
They're not pages that where you can mount
to a route, but they work with the pages.
So the first one is the head component.
Head component is pretty much
exactly what it sounds like.
In fact, if you use create next app,
they already generated one for us.
It's exactly where all the stuff that you
would normally put in the head tag goes.
And then it's gonna be
used on every single page.
That way you don't have to do it twice or
three times, or how many pages you have.
If you have used Version 12 before,
or if you're going to use Version 12,
you would probably put this
in your document page.
Your underscore document
inside of the pages directory.
You'll put it here.
It's the same thing.
It's the equivalent.
It's just what people call a partial.
If you've ever done traditional
server side rendering,
that's where the term comes from.
These are partial templates that
kind of get merged together.
So this is like a partial, and
it's just for the head tag.
That way you don't have to
rewrite it a thousand times.
So you notice we have it here.
And then if we wanna use it,
we'll talk about layouts in a minute.
But you can see the layout has had here.
And it's just referring to the ones
returned from the nearest head.tsx file.
Which basically means in any folder we
can have multiple head.tsx files, and
that's because sometimes it changes.
Like for instance, in this block slug,
for this one, its head tag is definitely
gonna be way different than what
the head tag would be on the route.
Because we need to include things for
the blog posts, social, OG, graph links,
Twitter, Facebook, the images,
the title or the blog post, the author.
That all is gonna be very dynamic,
so that they generate that.
So a layout is gonna look for
the nearest parent head tag.
So here's an example of it.
But basically everywhere you would put
things in your head, you would put here.
So metadata, things like that.
So that's one of the special ones,
yeah, if you need to do that,
mostly with SEO and things like that.
The other one that's way more interesting
to talk about, a way more powerful, and
we'll actually do some stuff,
is this one, the layout?
Now, this is a heavily
requested feature from Next.js.
I know I've been dying to get something
like this since I've been using Next.js,
and it's exactly what it sounds like.
It's a layout, right?
A layout is basically,
take some common UI that
you want a bunch of pages to have and
share.
And you can create a component
that abstracts that UI out, and
then you can embed the pages into it,
so it kinda wraps it.
So you could think of this as like
a nav bar, a sidebar, and a footer.
That's going on all my pages.
So I'm gonna put that in a layout.
And then it's gonna wrap everything else.
So they all have those elements around it.
And V 12 of Next.js, there's no
framework specific way to do this.
If you go look at the documentation of V
12, they have three different ways they
recommend that you do it, but
it's still on you to figure that out.
And there's still like, the biggest
caveat with all those approaches,
is that you can't get data in the layout,
which is just it hurts.
Because a lot of like,
think of a layout where, I don't know,
you have a sidebar and it's got like
the user's picture and their name, okay?
You got to get that from somewhere, but
the layout can't get data at server
time on Next 12, so
you have to either get it client side,
which introduces more issues and
things like that.
Well, I'm glad to say that layouts are now
fully supported first party with Next.js.
All you have to do is
just make a layout file.
Layout.tsx is the name of the file that
you have to make on any given level,
and all the pages on that level, and
underneath it we'll have that layout,
right?
So let's give it a shot.
So in this layout,
I'm going to, I don't know,
put something here that says,
layout, all right?
And then I'm gonna render
the children here.
Let's put that in a div, like that, okay?
So now every page that I go to,
because this layout here is on the route,
we should see layout, right?
So, let's see.
There it is.
There's layout.
It's right there.
If I go to slash,
contacts, there's layout.
It's still there, blog.
I've never made a page for blogs,
that's never gonna show up.
But for slug, there it is.
It's still there.
That's the layout.
It's going to be a layout for all the
pages and all the children underneath it.
Which if you've thought about a little
more, you could do nested layout,
which is really cool, right?
So what does that look like?
Well, if I go into my
contact here in this folder,
and I make a layout.tsx, right, and
then I can do something
like export default
function ContactLayout(), like this.
And then I can say, return this div,
I need to grab the children.
Because it's a layout, you have to
always remember to embed the children.
Because the children are the things
that's being stuck into.
These are the pages or the layouts,
cuz it could be a page or
a layout going into another
layout cuz they're nested.
If you don't have that,
it'll just be the layout itself and
you'll never see your content.
So be sure to have that.
And then you can just say like,
contact layout.
All right, and then you can say something
like that, children, like that.
So now if you do that, we got a contact.
You can see here's the outer layout,
here's the contact layout,
and then here's the actual contact page.
All right, so it can nest forever.
So it's actually quite powerful.
>> So would it be possible to have
a sub-layout override like a parent or
layout that exists above it?
>> Yes, there is a way to do that.
So one of the cool features of
route grouping, I think that's,
I'm gonna keep saying that,
I'm pretty sure that's what they call it,
is that it allows you to opt into that.
So first I need to explain
the difference between a root layout and
a regular layout.
So let me talk about that and
then I'll get back to that.
So right now we have two layouts,
this first one is called the route layout.
Every app in Next,js has to
have at least one root layout.
Otherwise it won't work.
A root layout is literally the master
layout, you have to have at least one.
And there are scenarios where you can have
more than one if you have route grouping.
So if you have route grouping
on the root of your app folder,
those two different groups might
not have the same route layout,
they have their own
individual route layout.
So there's an example where you might
have more than one route layout.
But for most cases if you're not doing
route grouping like I'm not right here,
I would only have a layout on the route,
and this is the root layout.
And this will be a layout for
every single thing on the page,
there's really kinda no way around it.
But again,
if we start doing route grouping,
if these have parentheses around them and
they have their own layouts,
I can opt out of this layout right here by
exporting a variable inside of the actual
layout to say, I don't wanna use this
anymore, and I can opt out of it.
There's also another one called template.
I'm only gonna talk about itbecause
it's worth talking about.
It's the same thing as layout,
except for one caveat, is that,
a layout doesn't get refreshed when the
the route segment changes intentionally.
Its UI elements stay there.
A template changes every time
a route template changes.
So that's the only difference.
So if you make a template.tsx or
jsx or whatever, instead of a layout,
you'll get the same effect.
It's just that that template will actually
re-render every time the segment changes.
And so you might ask, so
why would I ever want that?
Probably mostly for like animations.
If you need to have like an enter or
exit animation on those layout elements,
if they never re-render you're never
gonna trigger those entrance and
exit animations.
So use a template instead.
Or if there was some part of
that layout where you want
it to refresh all the time or get
constant data, you can use the template.
So whenever the route changes,
it's always up to date.
But for the most part, just always
use a layout until you're like,
we actually need this specific use case,
then use a template.
But yeah, they have that, but
I almost don't recommend using it.
Just use layout, yes.
>> One more question.
So would it be possible to say like
the layout needs context information?
Would there be a way to wrap a context
provider around the layout component,
or is that not something that's possible?
>> So we'll get to context cuz, [LAUGH] it
doesn't work the same anymore with React
18, and the two different types
of components that you make.
But for the most part, if you opt into
using your components the way you normally
use them, which are client component,
you can do a context.
But if you're not using client components,
you cannot do that.
They don't work.
There's not gonna be a lot of context
stuff in React I see in the future.
I think a lot of that's gonna not happen
in my opinion, and you'll see why.